So next, we're going to be talking about using the AWS CLI.
Now, I need to make a note here.
You don't need to know how to install and configure the CLI
for the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
You do need to know what it is and why you would use it.
However,
I do think it's a valuable tool if you'll be working within
AWS, so we're going to do a quick review here.
So here, over the course of this demo,
we will first be accessing AWS access keys.
We'll then be reviewing installation instructions for the CLI.
We'll then be configuring the CLI for a specific user. And finally,
we will be interacting with AWS utilizing the CLI.
So, I'm here at your security credentials, and this is where we
left off when we were demoing the console.
Just as a reminder, you can get here by going under your username
and then going into My Security Credentials. Now,
I mentioned that access keys were critical.
This is basically the way that we control authentication and
authorization when we are using the CLI and the SDK. I'm going to
select Access keys, and AWS is going to present me with a warning, and
rightly so. They let us know that root users have unrestricted access
to the entire AWS account. So, they recommend using an IAM user with
limited permissions if we're going to be creating access keys, and that
is great advice.
Now, as a note, we will be creating access keys here. However,
I am going to be deleting these immediately following this demo.
You should not create root user access keys and use them on a day‑to‑day basis.
That is not a good practice.
However, for simply demoing the CLI, in this case, that should be fine.
So I'm going to select Create New Access Key, and it lets us
know here that it has created our access key.
And it lets us know here that this is our one chance to see this
information, and we need to download our key file now.
It will not show it to us again. Now, if I click here on Show Access Key,
we can see here, both our access and secret access key, and
this is the information that we will need to be able to access
our AWS resources from the CLI.
Now, before we use these keys,
I'm now going to navigate over to the installation instructions.
So here within the AWS documentation,
there are instructions for installing the CLI.
There are currently two versions of the CLI, version 1 and
version 2. Version 2 is a newer version that is just
currently in preview, so for now,
we'll look at version 1. Now depending on your platform,
you can install the CLI in different ways.
For example,
Windows has an installer that actually comes with Python
integrated in. Now, Python is what the CLI is actually
built on and what is required.
So in Windows, there's a single installer that will handle it for you.
For many users that are on Linux or Mac, Python is
already included on your machine,
and you can simply use tools like pip to install the CLI. I'll include links
to this particular documentation within the guided outline.
Now next,
I'm going to navigate over to the terminal so we can actually
use the access keys that we've created.
So from here,
I can first check to see if the AWS CLI has been
properly installed on my machine.
I can simply type aws ‑‑version, and I can now see that I'm
using the AWS CLI version 1.16.180, so I do have it
properly installed on my machine.
Now, the next step is going to be to configure it with
the access keys that I just created.
Now, the first step will be to enter in the access key.
Next, I'm going to be entering in the secret access key.
Once we have that in place,
we can now enter in the default region name, and in this
case I'm going to choose us‑east‑one.
Finally, we can choose the default output format.
In this case,
I'm just going to choose JSON because that's a format that I'll work with.
Once I have all of that in place, I'm going to hit Enter.
And now we have configured the AWS CLI to work with those
credentials in a profile called PS test.
So now, I should be able to utilize the AWS CLI to get information
about the AWS resources that I'm leveraging. In this case, I'm going
to run a command that's going to list the S3 buckets that I have
created within this account.
And here you can see it has returned to me a list of all of the different S3
buckets that I have created within this account. So, to quickly review what
we've done. We have gone in and created access keys for our user with a caveat
there that we don't generally want to create access keys for the root user,
but for simple testing purposes, as long as you delete them after the fact,
that should be fine.
Then, we went through the process of looking at how you
would go about installing the AWS CLI.
And we noted that there are different instructions for Windows,
Mac, and Linux users.
We then configured the AWS CLI to use the credentials that we had created.
And finally, we verified that we could access the AWS resources that we're leveraging, utilizing those credentials from the CLI.